# modified_Hass_code

# Introduction
This is a modification of code adapted from the 2016 paper titled "A Detailed Data-Driven Network Model of Prefrontal Cortex Reproduces Key Features of In Vivo Activity" by Joachim Hass, Loreen Hertäg, and Daniel Durstewitz.
The purpose of the original code is to create a biologically realistic spiking network with interconnected excitatory and inhibitory neurons with AMPA, NMDA, and GABA receptors in two layers (II/III and V) of prefrontal cortex.
The purpose of the modified code is to selectively ablate NMDA receptors in different cell types in order to examine the effects upon population spiking activity, using data collected from patch clamp electrophysiology 
and confocal imaging experiments. The titles of all modified code files end with RMD (initials of Rachel Dick). 

# RunIDNetRMD.m
The main file is RunIDNetRMD.m, which runs the simulation and creates a raster plot of the resulting spike trains. 
This is where we set:
– Simulation time
– Number of neurons, input neurons, and columns/stripes
– Simulation conditions set in the CRISPRparams file (e.g. wild type, NMDA receptors ablated from pyramidal cells, etc.)
– Synaptic weight scales
– Connectivity scales
– Background input and constant DC current

It opens various other code files stored in the IDNet_RMD folder.
Outputs:
- STMtx: Spike times in ms, (cell array, one cell per neuron)
- V: Membrane potential in mV, (cell array, one cell per neuron)
- T: Simulation time in ms (vector)

Magic numbers are found in the second section, where we set I_ex and I_inh (constant DC current).

# ConfigIDNetRMD.m
This file sets all simulation parameters for IDNetSim.m, except for the optional connectivity matrix.
All parameters are passed to SimPar.

Inputs:
– N1:           Number of simulated neurons
– M1:           Number of input neurons (prescribed spike trains)
– Nstripes:     Number of columns/stripes
– RunTime:      Simulation time in ms
- I:            Background input (1x16 vector, one entry for each neuron type)
- s:            Scaling factors for synaptic weights (1x4 vector)
- p:            Scaling factors for synaptic connectvity (1x4 vector)
- ss_str:       Structure generated by selectSimulation to differentiate several simulations 
- RState:       State for Random number generation, optional (pass for reproduction of random numbers)

Ouptput:
- SimPar:       Simulation parameters (structure)

setCRISPRparams is called in this file to set the number of neurons in populations 1, 8, 15, and 16 (magic numbers) as well as the strength of synaptic connections.
In the section titled "Set network parameters," the identities of the 16 different neuron types and their magic numbers are defined. Copied below:

(1) L23-E  (2) L23-E-Grin1 (3) L23-I-L  (4) L23-I-L-d  (5) L23-I-CL  (6) L23-I-CL-AC  (7) L23-I-CS   (8) L23-I-F  (9) L5-E  (10) L5-E-Grin1 (11) L5-I-L  (12) L5-I-L-d  (13) L5-I-CL  
(14) L5-I-CL-AC  (15) L5-I-CS   (16) L5-I-F 

NTypes, which is the number of neurons of each type, is set here. Variables (L23_E_control, L23_E_Grin1) are used for the pyramidal neuron populations in the modified code.

Neuron parameters set in this file include:
– Mean independent neuron parameters
– Neuron parameter correlation matrices (magic numbers)
– Box-Cox transformation exponents for neuron parameters
– SDs of independent neuron parameters and minima and maxima of all neuron parameters

Synapse parameters are also set in this file, using the following order: (1) AMPA (2) GABA (3) NMDA
STypPar sets the parameters for the synapse type, including controlling the magneusium block for NMDA receptors.
Short-term synaptic plasticity parameters (STSP) and connection probabilities (for random networks) are set in this section. ConParSTSP and pCon both contain magic numbers.
Standard deviations of synaptic weights (first element in the third dimension of S_sig) and standard deviations of synaptic delays (second element in the third dimension of S_sig) also contain magic numbers.
Noise parameters for each synapse type and stripe parameters are set.

# IDNetSimRMD.m
This is a MATLAB wrapper for C program IDNet.c to simulate abritrary biological neural networks.
This file is where we set neuron parameters and initial conditions (one individual set for each neuron).

Inputs:
- SimPar: A set of parameters (neurons, synapses, control parameters)
- ConMtx (optionally): A network structure (random connectivity specified in SimPar is used if this is empty).
  
Outputs:
- STMtx: Cell array of spike times t_sp. Each cell contains t_sp of one neuron
- SPMtx: Spike parameters matrix.
- T:     Vector of simulation time steps for visualizing voltage traces
- V:     Cell array of voltage traces for each neuron in the viewlist
- Ninp:  Number of simulated neurons

Magic numbers appear in the section titled "Redistribute neuron types."
Intra-cell type and inter-cell type connections are set in this file, using parameters set in the SetCon_CommonNeighbour_Cross.m and SetCon_CommonNeighbour_Recur.m files.
Also defined in this file: inter-stripe connections, connections to input neurons, and cell assemblies (no magic numbers).

The actual simulation is run at the end of the code, as copied below:
[Ninp,~]=IDNet(CtrPar,NeuPar,NPList,STypPar,SynPar,SPMtx,SimPar.EvtMtx,SimPar.EvtTimes,ViewList,InpSTtrains,NoiseDistr,V0,UniqueNum,NeuronGroupsSaveArray);

The synaptic parameter matrix SynPar is set using the following function:
function [SynPar,Nsyn,idc]=SetSyn(SynPar,Nsyn,idc,ST,ConPar,ConParSTSP,S_sig,S_max,S_min)

Inputs:
- SynPar:         Synapse parameters (excluding those computed here)
- Nsyn:           Number of synapses that are already set
- idc:            Indices of synapses that are already set
- ST:             Synapse type – depends on what the presynaptic cell type is, either 1 and 3 for AMPA and NMDA or 2 for GABA
- ConPar:         Mean connection parameters (synaptic weight, delay and failure probability)
- ConParSTSP:     Short-term synaptic plasticity parameters
- S_sig:          Standard deviation of connection parameters
- S_max:          Maximum of connection parameters
- S_min:          Minimum of connection parameters
 
Outputs:
- SynPar:         Synapse parameters (concatinating old and new columns)
- Nsyn:           Updated number of synapses
- idc:            Updated synapse indices

# setCRISPRparams.m
This file sets the ratio of pyramidal cells in the wild type and NMDA receptor knockout conditions, as well as the parameters for each synpase type.
It allows us to create a 3D matrix called ALL_par where the first element is N_post, the second element is N_pre, and the third element is 3 (a magic number based on the number of receptor types).
Contains magic numbers. 

Sample code below for conenctions from wild type L23-E to wild type L23-E cells: 

    AGN_struct(1, 1).AMPA_wgt = 0.8405;
    AGN_struct(1, 1).NMDA_wgt = 0.8405;
    AGN_struct(1, 1).GABA_wgt = nan;
    AGN_struct(1, 1).dtax = 1.5465;
    AGN_struct(1, 1).p_fail = p_fail;
    AGN_struct(1, 1).srec_val = srec_EE;
    AGN_struct(1, 1).label = 'L23-E -> L23-E';

Values are put into ConParCont, which is orignally found in ConfigIDNetRMD.m.
ConParCont is a cell array with 1) index of the parameter set to be used for each synapse, 2) synapse type number for each synapse and 3) parameters sets (as seperate vector entries, if more than one), all of these for each input->output pair. The parameters of ConParCont are wgt (weight) dtax (unknown?) and p_fail (probability of synaptic failure).

# inv_con_PSP.m
Implements linear transformation from a desired maximal PSP value to a peak conductance, according to the data in inv_con_par, depending on input and output neuron type.
Contains magic numbers.

# Run_update_inv_con_PSP
Run this whenever parameters are changed that affect the post-synaptic potential (PSP) in any of the neuron classes.
Use par_E and par_I computed here in inv_con_PSP.m
Contains magic numbers that have not been updated.

# selectSimulation.m
This sets the name of a particular simulation (e.g. wild type, NMDA receptors ablated from pyramidal cells, etc.) to "true." The names match field names in setCRISPRparams and correspond to specific simulation runs.
This code also allows us to replicate experiments with different random initializations

# IDNet.c
This is a MEX function written in C to simulate arbitrary biological neural networks, which is used with the MATLAB wrapper IDNetSim.m
NumNeuPar is set to 13 instead of 12 in the modified code to reflect the addition of another row to NumNeuPar.
